docs/RFC/topbar/2024-05-07.md, before:

# RFC Template

**Feature Name:** topbar

**Start Date:** 2024-05-07

**Author:** Alen Ajam

**Related components/issues:** button, icon-button, link

## Summary

Use the topbar when you want to display an important message, and provides actions for users to address.

## Motivation

The main application needs a topbar component. It should encapsulate the UI logic expressed in the following [Figma component](https://www.figma.com/file/tqDILjLuuGCXICMbLrzxB4/Design-System?type=design&node-id=838-28878&mode=design&t=ZcwABejnK4pajebs-0).

## Detailed design

A Topbar component that is intended to be placed at the top of a page.

The text is provided through the `text` slot.
The action component is provided through slots, the component then internally renders the desired slot based on the style chosen and the current viewport.

### Topbar props

| Name  | Type                                                      | Required | Default   |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| type  | "default" \| "danger"                                     | No       | "default" |
| style | "none" \| "button" \| "icon-button" \| "hybrid" \| "link" | No       | "none"    |

### Topbar slots

| Name        | Required | Notes                                             |
|-------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| text        | Yes      |                                                   |
| button      | No       | Applies if type is "button" or "hybrid"           |
| icon-button | No       | Applies if type prop is "icon-button" or "hybrid" |
| link        | No       | Applies if type prop is "link"                    |

## Drawbacks

Providing the entire action component (button/icon-button/link) as a slot can be verbose, but it enables the user to completely customize it.
Providing both the slot for the action component and the style prop can be redundant but it allows for a more explicit API.
It could also be necessary in order to handle the hybrid style, which renders a different action component based on the current viewport.

## Alternatives

The positioning of the component could be managed internally (fixed, sticky, etc) but I think we would be better off leaving that to the user.

Commit message:

LIB-391 docs(topbar): review changes

docs/RFC/topbar/2024-05-07.md, after:

# RFC Template

**Feature Name:** topbar

**Start Date:** 2024-05-07

**Author:** Alen Ajam

**Related components/issues:** button, icon-button, link

## Summary

Use the topbar when you want to display an important message, and provides actions for users to address.

## Motivation

The main application needs a topbar component. It should encapsulate the UI logic expressed in the following [Figma component](https://www.figma.com/file/tqDILjLuuGCXICMbLrzxB4/Design-System?type=design&node-id=838-28878&mode=design&t=ZcwABejnK4pajebs-0).

## Detailed design

A Topbar component that is intended to be placed at the top of a page.

The text content is provided through the `default` slot.
The `style` prop defines the component to be rendered as action of the topbar.
The action is customizable through the `action-*` props.
Should the user need to provide a custom template for the action, they may do so through the `action` slot. 

### Topbar props

| Name           | Type                                                      | Required | Default   |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| type           | "default" \| "danger"                                     | No       | "default" |
| style          | "none" \| "button" \| "icon-button" \| "hybrid" \| "link" | No       | "none"    |
| action-label   | string                                                    | No       |           |
| action-tooltip | string                                                    | No       |           |
| action-link    | string                                                    | No       |           |
| action-icon    | string                                                    | No       |           |

### Topbar slots

| Name    | Required | Notes                                 |
|---------|----------|---------------------------------------|
| default | Yes      | Text content of the topbar            |
| action  | No       | Overrides action with custom template |

## Alternatives

The positioning of the component could be managed internally (fixed, sticky, etc) but I think we would be better off leaving that to the user.
