README.md, before:

# DESIGN SYSTEM

## Development
### Node.js
In order to ensure the same version of Node.js runtime is used by the developers we encourage the usage of [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm). Windows users can look at [nvm-windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows).

In order to install the correct version of Node.js run
```
nvm install
nvm use
```
inside the project directory.

### NPM client
We handle dependencies with `pnpm`. Please refer to its [documentation](https://pnpm.io/it/installation) in order to install it in the local development machine.

### Dependency installation
Run `pnpm install`.

**Note**: Playwright browsers (Chromium) will be installed automatically via postinstall script. This is necessary for running Storybook interaction tests.

### Running tasks
Our task runner of choice is [nx](https://nx.dev/).
In order to run tasks you can, for example
```
npx nx run @fiscozen/storybook:storybook // run the "storybook" task on @fiscozen/storybook package
npx nx run-many -t build // executes the "build" task on all projects
npx run affected:test // execute the "test" task only on packages that are affected in this branch vs main, and on all dependent packages
```
Please refer to Nx documentation for full usage explanation.

## Testing

This project uses a two-tier testing strategy for industry-standard quality:

| Layer | Tool | Purpose |
|-------|------|---------|
| **Unit Tests** | Vitest + Vue Test Utils | Props, events, ARIA attributes, internal logic |
| **Component Tests** | Storybook Play Functions | User interactions, keyboard navigation, visual states |

📖 **See [TESTING.md](./TESTING.md) for comprehensive testing documentation, patterns, and best practices.**

### Quick Start

```bash
# Unit tests (from package directory)
cd packages/button
pnpm test                     # Run once
pnpm test -- --watch          # Watch mode
pnpm test -- --coverage       # With coverage

# Storybook interaction tests (from root)
pnpm test:storybook           # Run once
pnpm test:storybook:watch     # Watch mode (recommended for development)
pnpm test:storybook:coverage  # With coverage
pnpm test:storybook:ui        # Interactive UI

# Run all tests across packages
npx nx run-many -t test       # All unit tests
npx nx affected -t test       # Only affected packages
```

## Releasing (Changesets)

We use [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) to manage versioning and changelogs.

```bash
pnpm changeset              # Create a changeset (select packages + semver bump)
pnpm changeset:version      # Consume changesets → bump versions & update CHANGELOGs
pnpm changeset:publish      # Publish updated packages to npm
```

**Workflow**:
1. before opening a PR that affects a package, run `pnpm changeset` and commit the generated file. The more readable is the changeset, the more useful the CHANGELOG will be.
2. One ore more PRs with changesets gets merged
3. When we want to release we use `pnpm changeset:version` to automatically bump versions and add CHANGELOGs
4. Currently we will manually update tags and use `pnpm changeset:publish`, in the near future this step will be automated.

### Test Coverage Requirements

- **Statements**: 80%
- **Branches**: 75%
- **Functions**: 80%
- **Lines**: 80%

Commit message:

script: release check script with useful insights on monorepo status

README.md, after:

# DESIGN SYSTEM

## Development
### Node.js
In order to ensure the same version of Node.js runtime is used by the developers we encourage the usage of [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm). Windows users can look at [nvm-windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows).

In order to install the correct version of Node.js run
```
nvm install
nvm use
```
inside the project directory.

### NPM client
We handle dependencies with `pnpm`. Please refer to its [documentation](https://pnpm.io/it/installation) in order to install it in the local development machine.

### Dependency installation
Run `pnpm install`.

**Note**: Playwright browsers (Chromium) will be installed automatically via postinstall script. This is necessary for running Storybook interaction tests.

### Running tasks
Our task runner of choice is [nx](https://nx.dev/).
In order to run tasks you can, for example
```
npx nx run @fiscozen/storybook:storybook // run the "storybook" task on @fiscozen/storybook package
npx nx run-many -t build // executes the "build" task on all projects
npx run affected:test // execute the "test" task only on packages that are affected in this branch vs main, and on all dependent packages
```
Please refer to Nx documentation for full usage explanation.

## Testing

This project uses a two-tier testing strategy for industry-standard quality:

| Layer | Tool | Purpose |
|-------|------|---------|
| **Unit Tests** | Vitest + Vue Test Utils | Props, events, ARIA attributes, internal logic |
| **Component Tests** | Storybook Play Functions | User interactions, keyboard navigation, visual states |

📖 **See [TESTING.md](./TESTING.md) for comprehensive testing documentation, patterns, and best practices.**

### Quick Start

```bash
# Unit tests (from package directory)
cd packages/button
pnpm test                     # Run once
pnpm test -- --watch          # Watch mode
pnpm test -- --coverage       # With coverage

# Storybook interaction tests (from root)
pnpm test:storybook           # Run once
pnpm test:storybook:watch     # Watch mode (recommended for development)
pnpm test:storybook:coverage  # With coverage
pnpm test:storybook:ui        # Interactive UI

# Run all tests across packages
npx nx run-many -t test       # All unit tests
npx nx affected -t test       # Only affected packages
```

## Releasing (Changesets)

We use [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) to manage versioning and changelogs.

```bash
pnpm changeset              # Create a changeset (select packages + semver bump)
pnpm changeset:version      # Consume changesets → bump versions & update CHANGELOGs
pnpm changeset:publish      # Publish updated packages to npm

pnpm release:check              # Full release preview: all sections below
pnpm release:check:unpublished  # Only: local vs npm — what's ready to publish?
pnpm release:check:pending      # Only: what will the next release look like?
pnpm release:check:graph        # Only: dependency graph & cascade analysis
pnpm release:check:health       # Only: peer-dep alignment, 0.x warnings, etc.
```

**Workflow**:
1. before opening a PR that affects a package, run `pnpm changeset` and commit the generated file. The more readable is the changeset, the more useful the CHANGELOG will be.
2. One ore more PRs with changesets gets merged
3. Before releasing, run `pnpm release:check` to review impact, cascade and health
4. When we want to release we use `pnpm changeset:version` to automatically bump versions and add CHANGELOGs
5. After versioning, run `pnpm release:check:unpublished` to verify which packages have local versions ahead of npm (dry-run of publish)
6. Currently we will manually update tags and use `pnpm changeset:publish`, in the near future this step will be automated.

### Test Coverage Requirements

- **Statements**: 80%
- **Branches**: 75%
- **Functions**: 80%
- **Lines**: 80%
