# RFC Template

**Feature Name:** dropdown

**Start Date:** 2024-06-07

**Author:** Alen Ajam

**Related components/issues:** button

## Summary

The dropdow component provides a compact interface for presenting multiple related actions or options within a single button.

## Motivation

The main application needs a dropdown component. It should encapsulate the UI logic expressed in the following [Figma component](https://www.figma.com/design/tqDILjLuuGCXICMbLrzxB4/Design-System?node-id=1557-110711&m=dev).

## Detailed design

The dropdown is made up of two main parts:

- The button, which is going to be the FzButton provided by @fiscozen/button. This is normally the only visible part of the component.
  - The label of the button is customizable through the `label` prop.
- The action list. This becomes visible by clicking on the button. The action list provides an n-length list of options which can then be clicked.
  - The action list can be provided through the `actions` prop. This is a list of objects, where an ID and a label must be provided for each.
  - Clicking on any action will trigger the `actionClick` event emitter, which is going to provide the id of the action that was clicked.

### Topbar props

| Name    | Type                            | Required | Default |
| ------- | ------------------------------- | -------- | ------- |
| label   | string                          | Yes      |         |
| size    | "xs" \| "sm" \| "md" \| "lg"    | No       | "md"    |
| actions | { id: string; label: string }[] | Yes      |         |
| align   | "left" \| "right"               | No       | "left"  |

### Event emitters

| Name         | Required | Parameters                    |
| ------------ | -------- | ----------------------------- |
| actionClick | No       | { id: string; label: string } |

## Alternatives

The alignment could be calculated dinamically based on the position of the dropdown inside the page. 
But a manual alignment probably works just fine.
