# Tab

**Feature Name:** tab 

**Start Date:** 2024-05-06

**Author:** Cristian Barraco

**Related components/issues:** float


## Summary

This document outlines the design for a Tab component intended for a web application.

## Motivation

The primary application requires a Tab component. This component should encapsulate the UI logic as expressed in the following [Figma component](https://www.figma.com/file/tqDILjLuuGCXICMbLrzxB4/Design-System?type=design&node-id=120-24659&mode=dev).


## Detailed design

We aim to provide two components responsible for creating and managing the logic behind a typical tab use case. The components are as follows:

1. Tabs: This component's role is to manage the transition between various tabs.
2. Tab: This component contains the tab's name and its content.

### props
Tabs: 
- size: 'sm' | 'md' (default: 'sm') The size of the tabs.
- picker-overflow: boolean (optional) If set to true, the tab displays as a picker when overflowing. 

Tab: 
- title: string The name displayed on the tab. 
- icon: string (optional) The icon displayed on the tab.
- badge-content: string (optional) The badge content displayed on the tab.
- disabled: boolean (optional) If set to true, the tab is disabled.
- selected: boolean (optional) If set to true, the tab is selected.

### slots

The Tabs component should contain all the tab items inside the default slot.
The Tab component should contain all the user's desired content in the default slot.

### responsiveness considerations
In line with the Figma specifications, we will provide a different overflow mechanism based on the picker-overflow property. If set to true, the tab displays as a picker when overflowing. If set to false, the tab displays as a standard tab with horizontal scroll.

### accessibility considerations
All tabs should be navigable and selectable using the keyboard. Accessibility of the components inside of the tab should be addressed by themselves.

## Drawbacks
The overflow mechanism changes based on the picker-overflow property. This means that the developer must be aware of the property's implications when using the component.

## Alternatives
The overflow mechanism could be based on the screen size. 

## Unresolved questions
What is the best way to handle the overflow mechanism? Should it be based on the picker-overflow property or the screen size?