# Navbar

**Feature Name:** navbar 

**Start Date:** 2024-03-26

**Author:** Riccardo Agnoletto

**Related components/issues:** navlink, navlist, avatar, iconbutton, float 


## Summary

Main navbar component for a web application.

## Motivation

The main application needs a navbar component. It should encapsulate the UI logic expressed in the following [Figma component](https://www.figma.com/file/tqDILjLuuGCXICMbLrzxB4/Design-System?type=design&node-id=120-24659&mode=dev).


## Detailed design


We will provide a skeleton component whose responsibility is to setup the correct layout for the following elements:

- Brand icon
- Main navigation links
- Notifications
- User options

### props
- variant: horizontal | vertical

### slots
- all the layout elements listed above

### responsiveness considerations
following the Figma specification we will provide a different template for mobile devices that will be adopted using the appropriate logic script.
The actual breakpoint specification will be derived by the fiscozen/style package of the design system, threrefore maintained by the design team and automatically synced during our build process.

### accessibility considerations
All the navigation should be keyboard aware and enabled. Accessibility of the components inside of the navbar should be addressed by themselves.

## Drawbacks
Providing only a skeleton is the most flexible way to answer different needs but makes UI design rules impossible at the library level.
We will provide a complete implementation example in the Storybook story.

## Alternatives
The component could instead provide a more "programmatic" approach where a data structure is provided that would enable the component to build the entire UI.
This was briefly considered, but considered not flexible enough and ultimately not that advantageous due to the component likely to be used in a single point in the application.

## Unresolved questions

Implementation of floating elements triggered by navlink click is still TBD due to design specifications still missing